# cloudbroker README #

Extends an Apache [VCL][vcl] cloud to enable brokering computing 
resources from Terremark [vCloud Express][vcloud].

----

## Prerequisites ##

* You will need an account on Terremark vCloud Express:
  https://signup.vcloudexpress.terremark.com/

  You will also need a key for logging into the VMs. The key
  can be created under the Key Management menu.
* The following Perl modules are directly referenced by the 
  provisioning module:

  HTTP::Request  
  HTTP::Request::Common  
  HTTP::Cookies  
  LWP::UserAgent  
  XML::LibXML  
  
  Additionally, there are indirect dependencies on the following:
  
  Net::SSLeay  
  LWP::Protocol::https  
  XML::LibXML::XPathContext  
  Hash::FieldHash  
  
  cpanm is recommended to install the modules. To install 
  cpan, type:

  cpan App::cpanminus  

  This will take several minutes. Then install the following
  Perl libraries by typing...

  cpanm Net::SSLeay  
  cpanm LWP::Protocol::https  
  cpanm XML::LibXML  
  cpanm XML::LibXML::XPathContext  
  cpanm Hash::FieldHash  

----

## Installation Instructions ##

1.  Download the key you created on the Terremark web interface to
    the server where the management node will be running. It should be
    named vcloud.pem. Edit the management node via the web interface and
    set the 'End Node SSH Identity Key Files' to the location of the key 
    file (e.g. /etc/vcl/vcloud.pem).

    Add your account username and password to /etc/vcl/vcld.conf 
    as follows:

    tmrkUser=<username>  
    tmrkPass=<password>  

2.  Install the new [provisioning][tmrk.pm] and [OS][Linux_tmrk.pm]
    modules, and the updated [utils][utils.pm] module.
    
3.  Run the [MySQL][mysql] script to add the new images and 
    modules to the database.  Make sure the ids used in the 
    script aren't in use already in your database.

    Go into the web interface and create an image group and 
    computer group for Terremark. Map them together. Add the 
    images to the image group.
    
    Create as many computers as you want. Name them something 
    like tmrk1, tmrk2, etc., but don't use any special characters 
    in the name. Use type 'blade'. Make sure you add the computers 
    to the Terremark computer group. 
    
    Give yourself or whomever privilege to the new computer 
    and image groups.
    
4.  Restart vcld

[vcl]: https://cwiki.apache.org/VCL/apache-vcl.html
[vcloud]: http://vcloudexpress.terremark.com/
[tmrk.pm]: https://github.com/mikeroda/cloudbroker/blob/master/VCL/Module/Provisioning/tmrk.pm
[Linux_tmrk.pm]: https://github.com/mikeroda/cloudbroker/blob/master/VCL/Module/OS/Linux/Linux_tmrk.pm
[utils.pm]: https://github.com/mikeroda/cloudbroker/blob/master/VCL/utils.pm
[mysql]: https://github.com/mikeroda/cloudbroker/blob/master/tmrk.sql

----

## Limitations and Issues ##

* Linux OS support only
* VMs are not deleted from Terremark at the end of the reservation 
  if the user never logs in - VCL will 'sanitize' the OS instead.
* The management node must be dedicated for Terremark provisioning
  since it is setup to use the key from vcloud.
* Management node communication with the VM is done over the public IP.
  Support is there for doing it over the private IP (see comments in
  the provisioning module) but it is commented out - requires Cisco
  VPN agent to be running.
* Only TCP port 22 (SSH) is opened on the Public IP. Could be 
  extended to include port 80 (HTTP), etc. 
* Frequently, we are unable to log into the VM created via the API 
  (SSH PermissionDenied error) and consequently the reservation fails, 
  leaving the VM running. Manually issue a 'reload' via the VCL 
  administrator menu to invoke the provisioning module again, which
  will delete the VM.  The root cause of this issue is unknown.

----

Copyright 2012 Mike Roda

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
   